
[117th Congress Private Law 3]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 1]]

Private Law 117-3
117th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    For the relief of Arpita Kurdekar, Girish Kurdekar, and Vandana 
             Kurdekar. <<NOTE: Jan. 5, 2023 -  [H.R. 680]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR ARPITA KURDEKAR, GIRISH 
                              KURDEKAR, AND VANDANA KURDEKAR.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Arpita Kurdekar, Girish 
Kurdekar, and Vandana Kurdekar shall each be eligible for issuance of an 
immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully 
admitted for permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance 
of an immigrant visa under section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of 
status to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Arpita Kurdekar, Girish Kurdekar, or 
Vandana Kurdekar enters the United States before the filing deadline 
specified in subsection (c), he or she shall be considered to have 
entered and remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be 
eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed with 
appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--
Upon the granting of an immigrant visa or permanent residence to Arpita 
Kurdekar, Girish Kurdekar, and Vandana Kurdekar, the Secretary of State 
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 3, during the current or 
next following fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of the aliens' birth under 
section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives 
of the country of the aliens' birth under section 202(e) of such Act.

    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Arpita 
Kurdekar, Girish Kurdekar, and Vandana Kurdekar shall

[[Page 2]]

not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any right, privilege, 
or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.

        Approved January 5, 2023.

