
[117th Congress Public Law 208]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 136 STAT. 2241]]

Public Law 117-208
117th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To designate the community-based outpatient clinic of the Department of 
  Veterans Affairs in San Angelo, Texas, as the ``Colonel Charles and 
JoAnne Powell Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic''. <<NOTE: Oct. 17, 
                          2022 -  [S. 2771]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

     Congress finds the following:
            (1) Colonel Charles Powell and his wife, Mrs. JoAnne Powell, 
        served the community of San Angelo, Texas, with character and 
        dignity.
            (2) Colonel Powell served as the base commander of 
        Goodfellow Air Force Base from 1980 to 1984.
            (3) When the Powells moved to San Angelo, Charles was 
        ordered to help Goodfellow avoid closure and the displacement of 
        many members of the Armed Forces from the community they had 
        grown to love.
            (4) The impact of Charles' career can still be felt today at 
        Goodfellow Air Force Base, as it serves as a training school for 
        thousands of members from every Armed Force to train in 
        cryptology, intelligence, and firefighting.
            (5) JoAnne assisted thousands of constituents in the 
        district offices of Representatives Tom Loeffler, Lamar Smith, 
        K. Michael Conaway, and August Pfluger.
            (6) One of the several duties JoAnne spearheaded was the 
        annual process of nominations to the military service academies, 
        which was always a year-round process for her.
            (7) With JoAnne's assistance, many of the young men and 
        women of the 11th congressional district of Texas went on to 
        serve the United States and attend one of the military service 
        academies.
            (8) In addition, JoAnne was a fierce advocate of veterans 
        and helped thousands of individuals gain access to the veterans 
        benefits they rightfully earned.
            (9) JoAnne's compassion and dedication helped make the 
        Concho Valley a better place.
SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF COMMUNITY-BASED OUTPATIENT CLINIC OF 
                    DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS IN SAN ANGELO, 
                    TEXAS.

    (a) Designation.--The community-based outpatient clinic of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs in San Angelo, Texas, shall after the 
date of the enactment of this Act be known and designated as the 
``Colonel Charles and JoAnne Powell Department of Veterans

[[Page 136 STAT. 2242]]

Affairs Clinic'' or the ``Colonel Charles and JoAnne Powell VA Clinic''.
    (b) Reference.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the community-based 
outpatient clinic referred to in subsection (a) shall be considered to 
be a reference to the Colonel Charles and JoAnne Powell Department of 
Veterans Affairs Clinic.

    Approved October 17, 2022.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2771:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 168 (2022):
            Mar. 3, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 19, considered and passed House.

                                  

