
[118th Congress Public Law 98]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 138 STAT. 1575]]

Public Law 118-98
118th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To require a pilot program on the participation of non-asset-based 
third-party logistics providers in the Customs-Trade Partnership Against 
             Terrorism. <<NOTE: Oct. 1, 2024 -  [S. 794]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Customs Trade 
Partnership Against Terrorism Pilot Program Act of 2023. 6 USC 961 
note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Customs Trade Partnership Against 
Terrorism Pilot Program Act of 2023'' or the ``CTPAT Pilot Program Act 
of 2023''.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
                Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Finance of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
                Committee on Ways and Means of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) CTPAT.--The term ``CTPAT'' means the Customs Trade 
        Partnership Against Terrorism established under subtitle B of 
        title II of the Security and Accountability for Every Port Act 
        (6 U.S.C. 961 et seq.).
SEC. 3. PILOT PROGRAM ON PARTICIPATION OF THIRD-PARTY LOGISTICS 
                    PROVIDERS IN CTPAT.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        carry out a pilot program to assess whether allowing entities 
        described in subsection (b) to participate in CTPAT would 
        enhance port security, combat terrorism, prevent supply chain 
        security breaches, or otherwise meet the goals of CTPAT.
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Federal register notice.--Not later 
        than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register a notice 
        specifying the requirements for the pilot program required by 
        paragraph (1).

    (b) Entities Described.--An entity described in this subsection is--
            (1) a non-asset-based third-party logistics provider that--
                    (A) arranges international transportation of freight 
                and is licensed by the Department of Transportation; and
                    (B) meets such other requirements as the Secretary 
                specifies in the Federal Register notice required by 
                subsection (a)(2); or

[[Page 138 STAT. 1576]]

            (2) an asset-based third-party logistics provider that--
                    (A) facilitates cross border activity and is 
                licensed or bonded by the Federal Maritime Commission, 
                the Transportation Security Administration, U.S. Customs 
                and Border Protection, or the Department of 
                Transportation;
                    (B) manages and executes logistics services using 
                its own warehousing assets and resources on behalf of 
                its customers; and
                    (C) meets such other requirements as the Secretary 
                specifies in the Federal Register notice required by 
                subsection (a)(2).

    (c) <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  Requirements.--In carrying out the 
pilot program required by subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall--
            (1) ensure that--
                    (A) not more than 10 entities described in paragraph 
                (1) of subsection (b) participate in the pilot program; 
                and
                    (B) not more than 10 entities described in paragraph 
                (2) of that subsection participate in the program;
            (2) provide for the participation of those entities on a 
        voluntary basis;
            (3) continue the program for a period of not less than one 
        year after the date on which the Secretary publishes the Federal 
        Register notice required by subsection (a)(2); and
            (4) <<NOTE: Termination date.>> terminate the pilot program 
        not more than 5 years after that date.

    (d) <<NOTE: Assessment.>>  Report Required.--Not later than 180 days 
after the termination of the pilot program under subsection (c)(4), the 
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
report on the findings of, and any recommendations arising from, the 
pilot program concerning the participation in CTPAT of entities 
described in subsection (b), including an assessment of participation by 
those entities.
SEC. 4. REPORT ON EFFECTIVENESS OF CTPAT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
assessing the effectiveness of CTPAT.
    (b) <<NOTE: Analyses.>> Elements.--The report required by subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
            (1) An analysis of--
                    (A) security incidents in the cargo supply chain 
                during the 5-year period preceding submission of the 
                report that involved criminal activity, including drug 
                trafficking, human smuggling, commercial fraud, or 
                terrorist activity; and
                    (B) whether those incidents involved participants in 
                CTPAT or entities not participating in CTPAT.
            (2) An analysis of causes for the suspension or removal of 
        entities from participating in CTPAT as a result of security 
        incidents during that 5-year period.
            (3) An analysis of the number of active CTPAT participants 
        involved in one or more security incidents while maintaining 
        their status as participants.
            (4) <<NOTE: Recommenda- tions.>> Recommendations to the 
        Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection for 
        improvements to CTPAT to improve

[[Page 138 STAT. 1577]]

        prevention of security incidents in the cargo supply chain 
        involving participants in CTPAT.
SEC. 5. NO ADDITIONAL FUNDS AUTHORIZED.

    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated for the 
purpose of carrying out this Act.

    Approved October 1, 2024.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 794:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 118-27 (Comm. on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 169 (2023):
                                    July 18, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 170 (2024):
                                    Sept. 23, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  

