
[118th Congress Public Law 85]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 1545]]

                        LAUNCH COMMUNICATIONS ACT

[[Page 138 STAT. 1546]]

Public Law 118-85
118th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To facilitate access to the electromagnetic spectrum for commercial 
      space launches and commercial space reentries, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 26, 2024 -  [S. 1648]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Launch 
Communications Act. 47 USC 303 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Launch Communications Act''.
SEC. 2. ACCESS TO ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM FOR COMMERCIAL SPACE 
                    LAUNCHES AND REENTRIES.

    (a) Service Rules; Allocation.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In general.--Not later than 90 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission 
        shall--
                    (A) complete any proceeding in effect as of such 
                date of enactment related to the adoption of service 
                rules for access to the frequencies described in 
                subsection (c) for commercial space launches and 
                commercial space reentries, including technical 
                specifications, eligibility requirements, and 
                coordination procedures to preserve the defense 
                capabilities of the United States; and
                    (B) allocate on a secondary basis such frequencies 
                for commercial space launches and commercial space 
                reentries.
            (2) Coordination with national telecommunications and 
        information administration.-- <<NOTE: Requirements.>> The 
        coordination procedures adopted under paragraph (1)(A) shall 
        include requirements for persons conducting commercial space 
        launches and commercial space reentries to coordinate with the 
        Assistant Secretary regarding access to the frequencies 
        described in subsection (c) for commercial space launches and 
        commercial space reentries.
            (3) Limitation.--Access to the frequencies described in 
        subsection (c) in accordance with the service rules adopted 
        under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1), and the allocation of 
        such frequencies under subparagraph (B) of that paragraph, shall 
        be limited to the use of such frequencies for commercial space 
        launches and commercial space reentries.

    (b) Streamlining of Process for Granting Authorizations.-- 
<<NOTE: Deadline. Regulations.>> Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall issue new regulations 
to streamline the process for granting authorizations for access to the 
frequencies described in subsection (c) for commercial space launches 
and commercial space reentries so as to provide for--

[[Page 138 STAT. 1547]]

            (1) authorizations that include access to such frequencies 
        for multiple commercial space launches from 1 or more Federal 
        space launch sites and multiple commercial space reentries to 1 
        or more Federal space reentry sites;
            (2) authorizations that include access to such frequencies 
        for multiple commercial space launches from 1 or more private 
        space launch sites and multiple commercial space reentries to 1 
        or more private space reentry sites, upon successful 
        coordination with any Federal space launch site within a range 
        for access to such frequencies such that such a commercial space 
        launch or commercial space reentry would not cause harmful 
        interference with Federal systems;
            (3) authorizations that include access to multiple uses of 
        such frequencies for commercial space launch or commercial space 
        reentry;
            (4) electronic filing and processing of applications for 
        authorizations for access to such frequencies for commercial 
        space launches and commercial space reentries; and
            (5) improved coordination by the Commission with the 
        Assistant Secretary (who shall coordinate with the head of any 
        other Federal agency, as the Assistant Secretary considers 
        appropriate) to increase the speed of review of applications for 
        authorizations for access to such frequencies for commercial 
        space launches and commercial space reentries, including 
        coordination to increase automation similar to the automation 
        described in the service rules established by the Commission and 
        the Assistant Secretary to promote the development and use, by 
        entities other than the Federal Government, of spectrum in other 
        bands, including bands with the frequencies between 71 and 76 
        gigahertz, between 81 and 86 gigahertz, and between 92 and 95 
        gigahertz.

    (c) Frequencies Described.--The frequencies described in this 
subsection are the frequencies between 2025 and 2110 megahertz, between 
2200 and 2290 megahertz, and between 2360 and 2395 megahertz.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Each range of frequencies described in 
this section shall be construed to be inclusive of the upper and lower 
frequencies in the range.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Assistant secretary.--The term ``Assistant Secretary'' 
        means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and 
        Information.
            (2) Commercial space launch.--The term ``commercial space 
        launch'' means a launch licensed under chapter 509 of title 51, 
        United States Code.

[[Page 138 STAT. 1548]]

            (3) Commercial space reentry.--The term ``commercial space 
        reentry'' means a reentry licensed under chapter 509 of title 
        51, United States Code.
            (4) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
        Communications Commission.

    Approved September 26, 2024.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1648 (H.R. 682):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 118-156 (Comm. on Energy and Commerce) accompanying 
H.R. 682.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 169 (2023):
                                    Oct. 31, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 170 (2024):
                                    Sept. 17, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  

